---
title: "Docpad How To"
date: "2012-07-21"
layout: "post"
tags: ['post','docpad','coffee-script']
description: 'How to start docpad and what I had customized and applyed.'
author:'takeharu.oshida'
---

#### What is Docpad?

>At its core DocPad is a language agnostic document management system. This means you write your website as documents, in whatever language you wish, and DocPad will handle the compiling, templates and layouts for you. For static documents it will generate static files, for dynamic documents it'll re-render them on each request. You can utilise DocPad by itself, or use it as a module your own custom system. It's pretty cool, and well worth checking out. We love it.


#### Why I use Docpad.

I wanted to study the technical elements like this:

 * Coffee-Script and Node.js
 * Stylus or Less (something extends CSS)
 * markdown

And I also wanted to have my own website.
For those purpose, Docpad is best for me.


#### What I created with Docpad.

I launched two web-site with Docpad.

 * [george-osd-site](/)

  This site.
  To start programming, I referenced [Official](https://github.com/bevry/docpad) and [balupton.com](http://balupton.com/). Balaupton is who author of Docpad, and his site is also generated by Docpad and source code is opened at github.
  To Deploy cloudfoundry, I wrote *app.js* as entry point.

        require('coffee-script');
        require(__dirname+'/server.coffee');

  and *server.coffee*

        # Requires
        #docpad = require 'docpad' #it dosen't work why?
        docpad = require "#{__dirname}/node_modules/docpad/out/lib/docpad"
        express = require 'express'
        # =====================================
        # Configuration

        # Variables
        oneDay = 86400000
        expiresOffset = oneDay

        # Configuration
        docpadPort = process.env.VCAP_APP_PORT || process.env.PORT || 3000

        # Create Servers
        docpadServer = express.createServer()

        # Configure DocPad
        docpadConfig =
          port: docpadPort
          maxAge: expiresOffset
          server: docpadServer
          checkVersion: false

        # =====================================
        # Start & Extend DocPad

        # Create DocPad, and wait for it to load
        docpad.createInstance docpadConfig, (err,docpadInstance) ->
          # Prepare
          console.log err.stack if err
          docpadInstance.action "server generate watch", (error) ->
            console.log error.stack if error
            console.log 'OK,Docpad was Initialized'

        # =====================================
        # Exports

        # Export the DocPad Server we created
        module.exports = docpadServer
<br>
 * [Slidepad](http://slidepad.herokuapp.com)

  HTML5Slide generator.The 6th Skeleton of Docpad@6.5.5
  Taking advantage of the characteristics of the Docpad,
  I tried to make more complex output view from brief markdown docs.



